Anni/wcicd (#16642)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/ci-cd/builds/build-configuration.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: configuration

> title: Build Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Configuration
```

Think this is simpler and more descriptive, some of the things configured below aren't really about the Build step, and this section is already under the `Workers Builds` section

description: Understand the different settings associated with your build.
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

When connecting your repository, you can configure how to build and deploy your Worker. 

## Build Settings

Build settings can be found by navigating to **Settings** > **Build** within your Worker. The following configurations are available: 

| Setting                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **Git account**                              | Select the git account you would like to use. After initial connection,, you can continue to use this git account for future projects.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 2: Double comma after "After initial connection"

| **Deploy command**                           | The deploy command lets you set the **specific** Wrangler command to deploy your Worker. Your deploy command will default to `npx wrangler deploy` but you may customize this command if for example you want to create a [version](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/) of your Worker or just run `npm run deploy`. Workers Builds will use the Wrangler version set in your `package json`.                                                                                                                                             |
| **Root directory** _(Optional)_              | Specify the root directory of your repository. The root directory describes where the build command will be run.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

> | **API token** _(Optional)_                   | By default, Cloudflare will automatically generate an API token for your account when using Workers Builds for the first time. Workers Builds will continue to use this API token for all subsequent projects and builds. You can also generate and use new API tokens if you choose. These API tokens will be created with the following permissions for your account: |

Reviewer: ^ has a hanging `:`?

| **Build variables and secrets** _(Optional)_ | Add environment variables and secrets accessible only to your build. Build variables will not be accessible at runtime. If you would like to configure runtime variables you can do so in **Setting**s > **Variables & Secrets**                                                                                                                                        |

> :::note[API Token Permissions]

Reviewer: Should this just be part of the description in the table?

Author: I feel like it's too long to put in the table

> The Workers Builds API token will be created automatically with the following permissions: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you connect your Worker to a git repository and configure Workers Builds, Workers Builds will create an API token automatically with the following permissions: 
```

active voice, be clear about what action this is connected to that someone takes

- **Account:** Account Settings (read), Workers Scripts (edit), Workers KV Storage (edit), Workers R2 Storage (edit)
- **Zone:** Workers Routes (edit) for all zones on the account
- **User:** User Details (read), Memberships (read)
:::

> Please note, any updates to your build settings will be applied on the next build once saved. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that when you update and save build settings, the updated settings will apply only to builds that are started after your change.
```

---

> pcx_content_type: concept

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
pcx_content_type: configuration
```

title: Build Configuration
description: Understand the different settings associated with your build.
sidebar:
  badge:
    text: Beta
---

You may tell Workers Builds how your application needs to be built and deployed.

## Build Settings

You can configure Cloudflare to automatically build and deploy your Worker when a pull request is merged into a specific branch of your Git repository.

Build settings can be found on the Settings page of your Worker. The following options are available:

- **Git account**
  - Set the git account you would like to choose your repository from.
- **Git repository**
  - Select the git repository you would like to connect to your Worker.
- **Git branch**

>   - Select the branch you would like Cloudflare to listen to for new commits. This will be defaulted to main.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Select the branch you would like Cloudflare to listen to for new commits. This will be defaulted to `main`.
```

- **Build command** (Optional)

>   - Add a build command if your project requires a build step for example if you are building with assets. Reference supported frameworks for correct build command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Add a build command if your project requires a build step for example if you are building with assets. Reference [supported frameworks](/workers/ci-cd/builds/build-image/#supported-languages-and-tools) for correct build command.
```

Author: not that page, would be something that tanshuree will add as part of assets for workers :D

Author: will coordinate with her

- **Deploy command**

>   - The deploy command lets you choose the specific Wrangler command you would like to use to deploy your Worker. Your deploy command is defaulted to `npx Wrangler deploy`, but it can be customized as needed. You can also upload as a version, and take advantage of gradual deployments here.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - The deploy command lets you choose the specific Wrangler command you would like to use to deploy your Worker. Your deploy command is defaulted to `npx wrangler deploy`, but it can be customized as needed. You can also upload as a version, and take advantage of [gradual deployments](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/).
```

Reviewer 3: Apologies, our hyperlint bot isn't the most consistent on that piece particularly

- **Root Directory** (Optional)
  - Specify the root directory of your Worker. The root directory describes where the build command will run.
- **API Key** (Optional)
  - By default, Cloudflare will generate an API token for your account or you can create and select an existing API token from a previous build in the API token drop down. These API tokens will be created with the following permissions for your account:
    - **Account:** Account Settings (read), Workers Scripts (edit), Workers KV Storage (edit), Workers R2 Storage (edit)
    - **Zone:** Workers Routes (edit) for all zones on the account
    - **User:** User Details (read), Memberships (read)
- **Build variable** (Optional)
  - Add variables and secrets accessible only to your build.

## Monorepo support

You can choose to use a monorepo (a Git repository that contains multiple project) with Workers. To do so, you must:

1. Connect your monorepo git repository to each of your associated Workers
2. Set up your build configuration to only deploy to that specific Worker by setting the correct root directory in your build configuration.

> Note that when a new commit is detected in the monorepo, all the associated Workers will trigger a new build and deploy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a new commit is detected in the monorepo, all the associated Workers will trigger a new build and deploy.
```

## Wrangler Environment support

To set up Workers with [Wrangler Enviornments](/workers/wrangler/environments/):

> 1. (Optional) Deploy via Wrangler to create the Worker for your environments in the Dashboard, if you don’t already have them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) [Deploy via Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/commands/#deploy) to create the Worker for your environments in the Dashboard, if you don’t already have them.
```

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Build Configuration
description: Understand the different settings associated with your build.
---

You may tell Workers Builds how your application needs to be built and deployed.

## Build Settings

You can configure Cloudflare to automatically build and deploy your Worker when a pull request is merged into a specific branch of your Git repository.

Build settings can be found on the Settings page of your Worker. The following options are available:

- **Git account**
  - Set the git account you would like to choose your repository from.
- **Git repository**
  - Select the git repository you would like to connect to your Worker.
- **Git branch**
  - Select the branch you would like Cloudflare to listen to for new commits. This will be defaulted to main.
- **Build command** _(Optional)_

>   - Add a build command if your project requires a build step for example if you are building with assets. Reference supported [frameworks](/workers/frameworks/) for correct build command.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Add a build command if your project requires a build step. This is necessary, for example, when building with assets. Reference supported [frameworks](/workers/frameworks/) for correct build command.
```

>   - Add a build command if your project requires a build step. This is necessary, for example, when building with assets. Reference supported [frameworks](/workers/frameworks/) for correct build command.

Reviewer 5: I get a 404 for this link

Author: this one is being worked on by tanshuree in a different pr, will need to coordinate with her

- **Deploy command**

>   - The deploy command lets you choose the specific Wrangler command you would like to use to deploy your Worker. Your deploy command is defaulted to `npx wrangler deploy`, but it can be customized as needed. You can also upload as a version, and take advantage of [gradual deployments](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - The deploy command lets you choose the specific Wrangler command you would like to use to deploy your Worker. Your deploy command is defaulted to `npx wrangler deploy`, but it can be customized as needed. You can also upload as a version and take advantage of [gradual deployments](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/).
```

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Build Configuration
description: Understand the different settings associated with your build.
sidebar:
  badge:

>     text: Beta

Reviewer: <img width="330" alt="Screenshot 2024-09-18 at 2 21 54 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/59d9994d-2434-4b1a-b1f2-b4f02cd0cad4">

This creates lots of redundant labels in the nav, would consider removing except for the index page

---

You may tell Workers Builds how your application needs to be built and deployed.

## Build Settings

You can configure Cloudflare to automatically build and deploy your Worker when a pull request is merged into a specific branch of your Git repository.

Build settings can be found on the Settings page of your Worker. The following options are available:

- **Git account**

>   - Set the git account you would like to choose your repository from.

Reviewer: let's be specific about Github / Gitlab otherwise this is confusing, what do you mean by "git account"? In my git config I configure my user, so what is this?
